# Solution

## Technical aspects of the system

The aim is to create a modular and extensible design, best suited for the business scenario, avoiding at all cost over/under-engineering. Our solution (namely the backend code) is independent of all restaurants/Owners, except UI interfaces, data and uris.

**Real time updates** of the menu and of the interaction between Customers and Waiters will be made possible with full-duplex communication (e.g. web sockets). No refresh required for notifications about menu, calls, offers, etc.

# Data and Resources

## Definitions

- Table = singular table/set of unified tables under **<span style="text-decoration:underline;">one</span> QR code**
- Buffet = set of **<span style="text-decoration:underline;">multiple</span> QR assigned tables**, made artificially when requested by large groups of Customers
- Sitting = abstract way for referencing either a single table or a buffet
- Taking = checked-in state of a sitting, all Customers of the table
- Payment = record of a transaction made between the Customer and the location, regardless of its type (cash, card, app payment)
- Token = onboarding token generated by the Owner for the Waiter account

## System Resources

- Provided by the Owner (needs small amount of memory, should always be available for online Customers):
  - Locations
  - Tables
  - Buffets
  - Tokens
  - Waiters (accounts)
  - Products
  - Offers
- Provided by the Customers (needs more memory, should always be available for Waiters and Owners):
  - Reservations
  - Takings
  - Orders
  - Notes
  - Payments
  - Reviews (Waiter, Product, App)

## Relationships

- 1 taking &lt;-> 0/1 Waiters
- 1 taking &lt;-> 1/∞ tables
- 1 taking &lt;-> 1/∞ Customer devices
- 1 taking &lt;-> 0/∞ pairing takings (for pairs)
- 1 taking &lt;-> 0/∞ orders
- 1 Owner &lt;-> 1/∞ locations
- 1 location &lt;-> 0/∞ Waiters
- 1 location &lt;-> 0/∞ tables

In general we expect products and offers to be independent of the location of a restaurant but it is not always the case. To address this issue, our system will be able to handle both location specific/independent products and offers.

More can be seen here: [https://dbdiagram.io/d/Fluxo-69a09788a3f0aa31e1395277](https://dbdiagram.io/d/Fluxo-69a09788a3f0aa31e1395277)

## Observations

The **major **advantage of the buffet is the checkout functionality. One may pay for all the tables.

Both Waiters and tables exist independently, one without the other. Relationships between these resources are established by Customers. When they take a table, a taking is created representing a link between the Waiter and the table.

## Authorization level

The principle of least privilege is partially applied. While in corporations and secured contexts it is imposed, our human-centric context would benefit from human-less-restrictive permissions. For example a Waiter would like to create a reservation on behalf of an elderly person, the read operation alone is NOT enough.

Each level inherits its parent specifications. Think of OOP in programming, the same principles apply here (e.g. overriding). Generally, the update and delete operations are authorized only for the creator of the resource and marked with an additional symbol, i.e. “**\***”.

- Online Customers
  - Locations - read
  - Waiters (accounts) - read
  - Products - read
  - Tables - read
  - Offers - read
  - Reservations - CRUD**\***
  - Reviews - read
- Onsite Customers
  - Buffets - read
  - Takings - create, update (buffet case), and delete
  - Orders - CRUD**\***
  - Notes - CRUD**\***
  - Payments - create and read
  - Reviews - CRUD**\***
- Waiters
  - Buffets - CRUD
  - Waiters (accounts) - CRUD**\***
  - Reservations - CRUD
  - Takings - CRUD
  - Orders - read
  - Notes - read
  - Payments - CRUD
  - Reviews - read
- Owners
  - Locations - CRUD
  - Tables - CRUD
  - Waiters (accounts) - read, update (deactivate, i.e. setting manual management)
  - Products - CRUD
  - Offers - CRUD

## Business Analytics

**TL; DR**: analytics = reservations, takings, orders, payments

One key feature for Owners are business analytics and insights. Fluxo aims to provide/analyse Customer tendencies and opinions and present them in an intuitive manner to the Owner. The goal is to describe what is working well, what can be further exploited, what needs improvements.

How is the business impacted by the software? The main challenge to answer this question accurately is in fact our assumption: hybrid system. So all the analytics that can be provided depend on system adoption.

Why is Waiter satisfaction not included? It wouldn’t solve a real issue. For Waiters not happy with Customers, we can’t help them since the Customers identity remains confidential, or being not happy with the app will most likely result in f2f discussion rather than a review within the app. Good reviews do not bring benefits.

- Infrastructure costs - given through <span style="text-decoration:underline;">todo</span>
- Customers additions/reductions - given through **reservations** and **takings**
- Customer satisfaction
  - Product reviews
  - Waiter reviews
  - App reviews
- Revenues additions/reductions - given through **takings** and **payments**
- Product preferences (low/high rate of ordering) - give through **orders**

# API Modelling

## (Resource) URIs

There are ~80 APIs = 16 endpoints \* 5 verbs

1. **/ **(the home page having links to make a reservation, see menu, offers, Waiters)
2. **/locations**
3. **/locations/{id}/tables**
4. **/locations/{id}/buffets**
5. **/tokens**
6. **/locations/{id}/waiters**
7. **/locations/{id}/waiters/{id}/reviews**
8. **/products** (the menu)
9. **/products/{id}/reviews**
10. **/offers**
11. **/reservations**
12. **/takings**
13. **/takings/{id}/orders**
14. **/takings/{id}/payments**
15. **/takings/{id}/calls**
16. **/reviews** (system reviews from Customers)

## APIs

- **POST /** - changes Waiter management
- **GET /** - publicly available, home page, provides extra analytics/dashboards for Owner
- **DELETE /** - closes business
- **POST /locations**
- **GET /locations/{id}**
- **LIST /locations**
- **PATCH /locations/{id}**
- **DELETE /locations/{id}**
- **POST /tokens** - create a token needed for Waiter signups
- **GET /tokens/{id}**
- **DELETE /tokens/{id}**
- **POST /locations/{id}/tables** - returns its QR code
- **GET /locations/{id}/tables/{id}** - used by Customers when scanning the QR code
- **LIST /locations/{id}/tables** - when choosing table for a reservation
- **PATCH /locations/{id}/tables/{id}**
- **DELETE /locations/{id}/tables/{id}**
- **POST /locations/{id}/reservations**
- **GET /locations/{id}/reservations/{id}**
- **LIST /locations/{id}/reservations**
- **PATCH /locations/{id}/reservations/{id}**
- **DELETE /locations/{id}/reservations/{id}**
- **POST /offers**
- **GET /offers/{id}**
- **LIST /offers**
- **PATCH /offers/{id}**
- **DELETE /offers/{id}**
- **POST /products**
- **GET /products/{id}**
- **LIST /products**
- **PATCH /products/{id}**
- **DELETE /products/{id}**
- **POST /products/{id}/reviews**
- **GET /products/{id}/reviews/{id}**
- **LIST /products/{id}/reviews**
- **PATCH /products/{id}/reviews/{id}**
- **DELETE /products/{id}/reviews/{id}**
- **POST /locations/{id}/waiters** - create a Waiter account, needs onboardingToken from Owner
- **GET /locations/{id}/waiters/{id}** - returns profile
- **LIST /locations/{id}/waiters** - when requesting to change the Waiter
- **PATCH /locations/{id}/waiters/{id}** - profile updates, authorized only by the Waiter
- **DELETE /locations/{id}/waiters/{id}** - deletion of the Waiter account
- **POST /locations/{id}/waiters/{id}/reviews**
- **GET /locations/{id}/waiters/{id}/reviews/{id}**
- **LIST /locations/{id}/waiters/{id}/reviews**
- **PATCH /locations/{id}/waiters/{id}/reviews/{id}**
- **DELETE /locations/{id}/waiters/{id}/reviews/{id}**
- **POST /reviews**
- **GET /reviews/{id}**
- **LIST /reviews**
- **PATCH /reviews/{id}**
- **DELETE /reviews/{id}**
- **POST /takings** - authorizes to take the table
- **GET /takings/{id}** - displays information about the current tables and Waiter assigned
- **LIST /takings** - used by Waiter interface to display all takings where he is assigned
- **DELETE /takings/{id}** - when “closing a table” / kick out a Customer
- **POST /takings/{id}/requests**
- **GET /takings/{id}/requests/{id}**
- **LIST /takings/{id}/requests**
- **DELETE /takings/{id}/requests/{id}**
- **POST /takings/{id}/responses/requests**
- **GET /takings/{id}/responses/{id}**
- **LIST /takings/{id}/responses**
- **DELETE /takings/{id}/responses/{id}**

## Services

List of services and their managed resources. Each one of these deserve a dedicated runtime regardless of the deployment node.

- (Location) Presentation Service
- Waiters, Products, Tables, Offers
- Review Service
- Waiter, product, app reviews
- Reservation Service
  - Reservations
- Authorization Service
  - Takings
- Mediator Service
  - Orders, Notes, Payments

# Architecture

In the context of a bar or restaurant, we can assume low to average traffic within the service. This product is constructed for **“in-house” usage**, where autoscalling infrastructure, complex deployment types, and other services are overkill. How many clients can a restaurant serve at a time?

The estimated total client count for the service is around ~**151**, which is broken down as follows:

- 1 (The Owner)
- ~10 (Wait staff)
- ~100 (Onsite clients)
- ~20 (Online reservation clients)
- ~20 (Scrapers, bots, and others)

Can you name two restaurants that typically host more than 100 clients simultaneously?

We are right to assume low traffic. The primary focus should be **security, recovery of the service, and maintenance**. Scaling is a matter of end-game usage of our software and will be tackled as the system/business grows. It can be further observed that the most requests will be in the **same proximity** (i.e. same wi-fi, same network). Redirecting traffic to a distant node can be costly in terms of latency.

Customers and Waiters are connected with Web sockets to a **mediator node**. These connections are established by scanning QR code (automatically connects the user to the network and to the mediator node).

## Nodes

Assuming that a Owner has a single location, the full modular solution includes:

- API gateway node - redistributes traffic to the appropriate services
- A node for each of the 5 services presented above
- Waiter state recovery nodes (**optional**)
- Owner state recovery node (**optional**)

Adding more nodes will ensure stability and maintenance. But for testing purposes, small business, smooth adaptation, etc. it is recommended to start small.

## Multiple locations

**For any other location**, just replicate the above formula. The great part of this system is that all of these functionalities can be **run on a single node** as well! The logic will still be decoupled in multiple services, but all of them can theoretically run on the same machine.

## Fault Tolerance and Traffic Spikes (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">todo</span>)

## System recovery (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">todo</span>)

# Authorization (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">todo</span>)

## Authentication

- JWT
- Email and password for Waiters
-

## Roles and Authorized Actions

Users can authenticate as

- ## Customers (onsite, table taker)
-

## Call a Waiter Spam

What are the feasible limits for a Waiter to be called by a single table?

When called, a standard waiting time is set (3 minutes), dedicated for the Waiter's response. During this time, no other calls can be made.

If the Waiter marks the table resolved (responds) and the Customer calls him again under _cooldownMinutes_ minutes (initialized with 0.5) then:

- cooldownMinutes gets doubled for every subsequent repetition of this behavior
- A popup is sent to Customers about the side effects of spam

If the Waiter responds with a delay, then he cannot be called again until the delay is finished.

If the Waiter does **NOT** respond within that time, the Customer can call him again.

## Table Access

The QR code identifies the table, this part remains the same. How do we authorize the request?

Authorization methods for these scenarios:

- Schedule a table (make a reservation)
  - Cloudflare integration for human verification (secured away from DDOS)
  - Disregard requests for tables with active reservation/orders
  - Bind user to the scheduled table => disallow them scheduling another until cancel/checkout
- Take a table (no reservation)
  - Cloudflare integration for human verification (secured away from DDOS)
  - Disregard requests for tables with active reservation/orders
  - WI-FI/location connectivity
  - A code will be required to be introduced for reserved/taken tables
    - This code is provided to the client when scheduling a time for that specific table
    - When a user with no reservation wants to sit to a table and scans the QR code, the app either:
      - Prompts him to provide the code (meaning the table is reserved)
      - Gives him a code (to share with his participants) and reserves the table for him
  - Bind user to the scanned table => disallow them accessing another until checkout

## Waiter/Owner interfaces

Basic account setup. We could create an alternative solution which needs only emails for Waiters.

# Waiter Management (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">todo</span>)

Each Waiter possesses an account under the company’s name.

## By System

The key benefit is the automated balanced work for each Waiter at the cost of more computing power consumed by the master node. This extra needed traffic is in fact insignificant for an average machine. The “drawback” only affects slow and weak nodes.

Their assignment will be done by the “Least Connection Load Balancing” (LC) algorithm.The process starts by sorting the list of Waiters based on their table assignment count.

Customer onboarding will permit them to choose their Waiter.

After that, he will only be allowed to request a change. The request must be accepted by both Waiters.

## By Owner

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Important</span>**: Customers’ onboarding power to choose Waiters is transformed into change requests. He no longer has the power to decide.

All table requests are delivered to one Owner account, and he is going to be responsible for treating them onsite.

In future releases it is desired to provide Customers the ability to choose their Waiter (in the onboarding step only).

When changing from system management to manual several implications must be addressed. Deleting the Waiters profiles would lose a lot of dedicated past reviews and data, therefore a hybrid approach is designed. Their account will be deactivated, but still available to be read by Customers. se intampla cand un Owner decide sa schimbe Waiter management to manual?

## (Request to) Choose/Change Waiter

1. Choose Waiter
2. Change Waiter

Take the subarray of the most free Waiters.

# Payments (<span style="text-decoration:underline;">todo</span>)

Take into account that the business Owners might have configured PayU, any other service, etc. “fiecare restaurant are contract diferit cu managerul de plati (taxe lunare, comisioane, etc.)”.

## Tips

Reminder that doing it offline would be the best:

- Control
- Appreciation
- Human connection

```
  while tableIsNotCheckout:
  customer.manageCart()
  customer.placeOrder(products)
  customer.payOrder(order, amount)
  def checkout(): // triggered by customer, enclosed by Waiter/system
  customer.payOrders()
  customer.Waiter.closeOrders()
  customer.checkout()
  customer.Waiter.closetable()

```

## Questions

Waiter database?
Contact the Owners
Pre-pay
Horeca Facebook groups and Owners emails for feedback

# References

https://dbdiagram.io/d/Fluxo-69a09788a3f0aa31e1395277
https://gemini.google.com/share/835ebe7d6a6c
